docs/safe-haven-services/tre-container-user-guide/workflow-examples.md, before:

# Workflow Examples

The following sections will guide the user in the process of creating different types of containers.

For a complete list of examples, please see our TRE Container Samples repository, at [EPCCed/tre-container-samples](https://github.com/EPCCed/tre-container-samples).

## Example 1 - PyTorch

This section will explain how to create a container that runs a script using PyTorch inside the TRE. The expected directory structure is:

```console
  ├── Dockerfile
  ├── requirements.txt
  ├── torch_gpu_test.py
```

where `requirements.txt` contains:

```console
numpy
torch
```

and `torch_gpy_test.py` is any script that performs a test task using PyTorch.

### E1 - Step 1. Writing the Dockerfile

In our Dockerfile, we want to start by using an officially supported image that already contains as much of the software required to run the script as possible.

In our case, we want a ready-made python 3 image to start with, which we can find in [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/search?q=python). The latest stable version at the time of writing is [3.13.3](https://hub.docker.com/layers/library/python/3.13.3/images/sha256-981c77781aa563fc22ee5936fdd37e16679e3b28d32351430a6aede491f6e8b1), so we will use this and include the digest in our Dockerfile.

Next, we need to set up the TRE directories, copy our files into the container, install the necessary packages and finally execute the script. This process can be accomplished with the following Dockerfile:

``` Dockerfile
FROM python:3.13.3@sha256:a4b2b11a9faf847c52ad07f5e0d4f34da59bad9d8589b8f2c476165d94c6b377

# Create TRE directories
RUN mkdir /safe_data /safe_outputs /scratch

WORKDIR /usr/app
COPY requirements.txt ./

# Use hadolint ignore=DL3013 when linting this Dockerfile.
RUN pip install --no-cache-dir --upgrade pip  && \
    pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt

COPY torch_gpu_test.py .

CMD ["python", "./torch_gpu_test.py"]
```

### E1 - Step 2. Build and push to GHCR

As mentioned in our guidelines, it is good practice to check the Dockerfile with a linting tool to detect common mistakes before building our container:

```sh
# Ignore DL3013 to allow --upgrade
docker run --pull always --rm -i docker.io/hadolint/hadolint:latest hadolint --ignore DL3013 - < Dockerfile
```

We can then define our GHCR variables:

```sh
export GHCR_NAMESPACE=mynamespace
export GHCR_TOKEN=mytoken
```

build our container:

```sh
docker build . --tag ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/pytorch-test:v1.1 --tag ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/pytorch-test:latest --platform linux/amd64
```

and run it locally:

```sh
docker run --rm ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/pytorch-test:v1.1
```

If the container runs without errors, we can push our image to GHCR using our namespace and token:

```sh
echo "${GHCR_TOKEN}" | docker login ghcr.io -u $GHCR_NAMESPACE --password-stdin
docker push "ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/pytorch-test:v1.1"
docker push "ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/pytorch-test:latest"
docker logout
```

### E1 - Step 3. Test in CES test environment

Log into the 'ces-dev02' VM of the project EIDF147, which is the designated test environment for the CES.

Then, pull and run the container using the commands:

```sh
ces-pull podman $GHCR_NAMESPACE $GHCR_TOKEN ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/pytorch-test:v1.1
ces-run podman --gpu ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/pytorch-test:v1.1
```

### E1 - Step 4. Pull and run in the TRE

The container can be imported and run inside the TRE using the same commands as the [previous step](#e1-step-3-test-in-ces-test-environment).

## Example 2 - Python ML

This example demonstrates how to build a container which requires a ML model that would normally be downloaded from the internet when first run. Such models are typically cached in a hidden directory so it can be difficult to understand how to manually download the model, where to put it, and how to load it.

The approach we take is to run a sample piece of code during the container build phase, which downloads the model to the hidden cache directory. This then becomes part of the container.

The expected directory structure is:

```console
  ├── Dockerfile
  ├── cache-easyocr.py
  ├── doc1.png
  ├── test_easyocr.py
```

where `cache-easyocr` contains:

```py
#!/usr/bin/env python3

import easyocr
reader = easyocr.Reader(['en'])
```

`test_easyocr.py`:

```py
#!/usr/bin/env python3

import easyocr
import json
import sys
import shutil

src="/src/"
dst="/safe_outputs/"
reader = easyocr.Reader(['en'])

for filename in sys.argv[1:]:
    print("Processing file: ", filename)
    text_list = reader.readtext(filename)

    entities = []
    for (bbox_list, text, confidence) in text_list:
        print('Found text "%s" with confidence %f at %s' % (text, confidence, bbox_list))
        entities.append({'text': text,
            'confidence': confidence,
            })
    out_file = filename + '.json'
    with open(out_file, 'w') as fd:
        json.dump(entities, fd)
        print(entities)
    shutil.copyfile(out_file, dst + out_file.split("/")[2])
```

and `doc1.png` is an image that contains text.

### E2 - Step 1. Writing the Dockerfile

Similarly to the PyTorch example, we will start our Dockerfile using the `python:3` image:

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.13.3@sha256:a4b2b11a9faf847c52ad07f5e0d4f34da59bad9d8589b8f2c476165d94c6b377
```

We then install easyocr and download the HuggingFace ML models:

```dockerfile
RUN pip install easyocr
COPY cache_easyocr.py .
RUN python ./cache_easyocr.py
```

As there is no internet in the TRE, we need to make sure that HuggingFace does not attempt hub access:

```dockerfile
ENV HF_HUB_OFFLINE=1
```

We can then create the TRE directories, copy the files inside the container and execute the script:

```dockerfile
RUN mkdir /safe_data /safe_outputs /scratch /src
COPY test_easyocr.py doc1.png /src/
ENTRYPOINT [ "python3", "/src/test_easyocr.py", "/src/doc1.png"]
```

The final Dockerfile is:

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.13.3@sha256:a4b2b11a9faf847c52ad07f5e0d4f34da59bad9d8589b8f2c476165d94c6b377

# Install easyocr globally
RUN pip install easyocr

# Download ML models during the build phase
COPY cache_easyocr.py .
RUN python ./cache_easyocr.py

# Set environment variable to prevent HuggingFace hub access
ENV HF_HUB_OFFLINE=1

# Create TRE directories
RUN mkdir /safe_data /safe_outputs /scratch /src
# Copy files inside the container
COPY test_easyocr.py doc1.png /src/
# Run the script with the desired parameters
ENTRYPOINT [ "python3", "/src/test_easyocr.py", "/src/doc1.png"]
```

### E2 - Step 2. Build and push to GHCR

As mentioned in our guidelines, before building our container we first want to check the Dockerfile with a linting tool to detect common mistakes:

```sh
# Ignore DL3013, DL3042 and DL3045
docker run --pull always --rm -i docker.io/hadolint/hadolint:latest hadolint --ignore DL3013 --ignore DL3042 --ignore DL3045 - < Dockerfile
```

Note that we can deliberately ignore hadolint flags if the selected features are required by the container to run successfully.

We then define our GHCR variables:

```sh
export GHCR_NAMESPACE=mynamespace
export GHCR_TOKEN=mytoken
```

build our container:

```sh
docker build . --tag ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/python-ml-test:v1.1 --tag ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/python-ml-test:latest --platform linux/amd64
```

and run it locally:

```sh
docker run --rm --network=none test_easyocr ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/python-ml-test:v1.1
```

If successful, we should see an output of this type:

```console
Processing file:  /src/doc1.png
Found text "Apple is looking at buying U.K." with confidence 0.771268 at [[np.int32(1), np.int32(4)], [np.int32(221), np.int32(4)], [np.int32(221), np.int32(25)], [np.int32(1), np.int32(25)]]
Found text "startup" with confidence 0.994821 at [[np.int32(225), np.int32(9)], [np.int32(279), np.int32(9)], [np.int32(279), np.int32(23)], [np.int32(225), np.int32(23)]]
Found text "for" with confidence 0.999294 at [[np.int32(283), np.int32(7)], [np.int32(307), np.int32(7)], [np.int32(307), np.int32(21)], [np.int32(283), np.int32(21)]]
Found text "billion" with confidence 0.999928 at [[np.int32(331), np.int32(7)], [382, np.int32(7)], [382, np.int32(21)], [np.int32(331), np.int32(21)]]
[{'text': 'Apple is looking at buying U.K.', 'confidence': np.float64(0.7712680738082065)}, {'text': 'startup', 'confidence': np.float64(0.9948211556483356)}, {'text': 'for', 'confidence': np.float64(0.9992943653537125)}, {'text': 'billion', 'confidence': np.float64(0.9999277279271659)}]
```

If the container runs without errors, we can push our image to GHCR using our namespace and token:

```sh
echo "${GHCR_TOKEN}" | docker login ghcr.io -u $GHCR_NAMESPACE --password-stdin
docker push "ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/python-ml-test:v1.1"
docker push "ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/python-ml-test:latest"
docker logout
```

### E2 - Step 3. Test in CES test environment

As with the previous example, we now want to test our container in the designated test environment for the CES. Log into the 'ces-dev02' VM of the project EIDF147, then pull and run the container using the commands:

```sh
ces-pull podman $GHCR_NAMESPACE $GHCR_TOKEN ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/python-ml-test:v1.1
ces-run podman --gpu ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/python-ml-test:v1.1
```

### E2 - Step 4. Pull and run in the TRE

We can import and run the container in the TRE using the commands from the [earlier step](#e2-step-3-test-in-ces-test-environment).

## Example 3 - Interactive RStudio Rocker container

This section guides users through the process of creating a Rocker RStudio container that can be imported into the TRE and used for data analysis. In the example, a script is copied into the container, and the necessary packages are installed to ensure it runs correctly. Finally, RStudio is accessed from the host, allowing users to interact with the application as if it were running natively.

We will assume that this is the directory structure of our files:

```console
  .
  ├── src
  │   ├── install_packages.R
  │   ├── plot_example.R
  ├── Dockerfile
```

Where `install_packages.R` contains the following:

```R
install.packages("ggplot2")
```

and `plot_example.R` is a simple script that generates a graph:

```R
# library
library(ggplot2)

# basic graph
p <- ggplot(mtcars, aes(x = wt, y = mpg)) +
  geom_point()

# a data frame with all the annotation info
annotation <- data.frame(
   x = c(2,4.5),
   y = c(20,25),
   label = c("label 1", "label 2")
)

# Add text
p + geom_text(data=annotation, aes( x=x, y=y, label=label),                 ,
           color="orange",
           size=7 , angle=45, fontface="bold" )

ggsave("test_figure.png")
```

### E3 - Step 1. Writing the Dockerfile

We start the process by selecting the parent image. Searching for Rocker in [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/search?q=rocker), we are presented with a number of options. Only some of these originate from official sources. We want to select the most appropriate image published from a reputable source, in our case the [Rocker Project](https://rocker-project.org/).

For this example, we choose the latest version of Rocker RStudio, [rocker/rstudio](https://hub.docker.com/r/rocker/rstudio) from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/).

Clicking on "tags", we can then select "latest" and see the full signature of the image. We can then include the pinned image in our Dockerfile:

```dockerfile
FROM docker.io/rocker/rstudio:latest@sha256:ee7c4efa46f0b5d46e051393ef05f262aceb959463b15fc3648955965290d231
```

The next step is to include the TRE directories:

```dockerfile
RUN mkdir /safe_data /safe_outputs /scratch
```

We then want to copy our script inside the container. As we do not mean to preserve the script, only its output, we will copy it in a new `/src` directory. Note that we cannot save the files to `/scratch` as they would otherwise be overwritten during the mounting process to the TRE directories. To avoid repeating the `RUN` command, we will simply add our new directory to it:

```dockerfile
RUN mkdir /safe_data /safe_outputs /scratch /src
```

and then copy the files:

```dockerfile
COPY ./src/* /src
```

We then switch into our code directory:

```dockerfile
WORKDIR /src
```

And finally install the required packages:

```dockerfile
RUN r install_packages.R
```

This gives us the following Dockerfile:

```dockerfile
FROM docker.io/rocker/rstudio:latest@sha256:ee7c4efa46f0b5d46e051393ef05f262aceb959463b15fc3648955965290d231

RUN mkdir /safe_data /safe_outputs /scratch /src

COPY ./src/* /src

WORKDIR /src

RUN r install_packages.R
```

### E3 - Step 2. Build and push to GHCR

Before building our container, we want to check the Dockerfile with a linting tool to detect common mistakes:

```sh
# Ignore DL3008 (Pin versions in apt get install)
docker run --pull always --rm -i docker.io/hadolint/hadolint:latest hadolint --ignore DL3008 - < Dockerfile
```

We can then define our GHCR variables:

```sh
export GHCR_NAMESPACE=mynamespace
export GHCR_TOKEN=mytoken
```

build our container:

```sh
docker build . --tag ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:v1.1 --tag ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:latest --platform linux/amd64
```

and run it locally:

```sh
docker run --rm -e "PASSWORD=test" -p 8787:8787 ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:v1.1
```

We can then access RStudio by navigating to 'localhost:8787' in a browser. At the login page, type 'root' and 'test' for username and password respectively. Note that you will only be 'root' within the context of the container and not outside of it. The same applies in the test environment and TRE.

Once we made sure the container runs, we can push our image to GHCR using our namespace and token:

```sh
echo "${GHCR_TOKEN}" | docker login ghcr.io -u $GHCR_NAMESPACE --password-stdin
docker push "ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:v1.1"
docker push "ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:latest"
docker logout
```

### E3 - Step 3. Test in CES test environment

Log into the 'ces-dev02' VM of the project EIDF147, which is the designated test environment for the CES.

Rocker is one of those containers that requires to be started by the 'root' user. As such, it should be run inside the TRE - and our test environemnt - using podman. To pull the container using podman as our container engine, we use the command:

```sh
ces-pull podman $GHCR_NAMESPACE $GHCR_TOKEN ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:v1.1
```

The Rocker container was designed to be run using docker. In order for it to run successfully with podman, the container directories `/var/lib/rstudio-server` and `/run` need to be mounted to a tmpfs. As such, the following options are required:

```sh
'--mount type=tmpfs,destination=/var/lib/rstudio-server'
'--mount type=tmpfs,destination=/run'
```

Our full `opt-file.txt` then looks like this:

```text
-p 8787:8787
-it
--mount type=tmpfs,destination=/var/lib/rstudio-server
--mount type=tmpfs,destination=/run
```

If we want to set our password, we can add it to the `env-file.txt` as follows:

```text
PASSWORD=test
```

We can then run our container:

```sh
ces-run podman --opt-file opt-file.txt --env-file env-file.txt ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:v1.1
```

To streamline the process, we can place all the necessary commands into an executable script `run.sh` as follows:

```sh
opt_file="./opt-file.txt"

if [ -f "$opt_file" ] ; then
        rm "$opt_file"
fi
echo -e '-p 8787:8787' >> ${opt_file}
echo -e '-it' >> ${opt_file}
echo -e '--mount type=tmpfs,destination=/var/lib/rstudio-server' >> ${opt_file}
echo -e '--mount type=tmpfs,destination=/run' >> ${opt_file}

env_file="./env-file.txt"

if [ -f "$env_file" ] ; then
        rm "$env_file"
fi
echo -e "PASSWORD=test" >> ${env_file}

ces-run podman --opt-file $opt_file --env-file $env_file ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:v1.1
```

After executing the `run.sh` script, we can open a browser tab and access RStudio at `localhost:8787`. As done previously during the local test, we can log in using the credentials `root` and `test` for username and password respectively. From within RStudio, we can then run our script, which can be found in `/src`, and then copy our output to `/safe_output` so that it can be preserved after we exit the container.

The container is running successfully if:

- The log-in is successful.
- The rstudio user has full access to TRE directories `/safe_data`, `/safe_outputs` and `/scratch`.
- The files saved in `/safe_outputs` and `/safe_data` (when writing permission is granted by IG) have correct permission on the host, that is they belong to the logged-in user.

### E3 - Step 4. Pull and run in the TRE

The container can then be imported inside the TRE using the same commands as [Step 3](#e3-step-3-test-in-ces-test-environment).

Commit message:

Clarified use of public vs. private repositories and access tokens when using CES and GHCR
At present, the TRE CES user documentation implies that only private GHCR repositories can be used. Users of the TRE container execution service 'ces-tools' can use either public or private GHCR repositories. However, when using 'ces-tools' they must provide both a username and an access token.

Updated `docs/safe-haven-services/tre-container-user-guide/*md`:
* Removed any mention of 'private' repositories.
* Stated that 'ces-pull' username/namespace and token arguments are mandatory.
* Clarified that, for pushing containers, a GitHub access token with 'repo' and 'write:packages' scopes is required.
* Clarified that, for pulling containers within the test environment or the TRE, a GitHub access token with 'read:packages' scopes is recommended to keep the user's GHCR secure.
* For pulling containers, a read-only access token (not a password or read-write access token) is recommended.

docs/safe-haven-services/tre-container-user-guide/workflow-examples.md, after:

# Workflow Examples

The following sections will guide the user in the process of creating different types of containers.

For a complete list of examples, please see our TRE Container Samples repository, at [EPCCed/tre-container-samples](https://github.com/EPCCed/tre-container-samples).

## Example 1 - PyTorch

This section will explain how to create a container that runs a script using PyTorch inside the TRE. The expected directory structure is:

```console
  ├── Dockerfile
  ├── requirements.txt
  ├── torch_gpu_test.py
```

where `requirements.txt` contains:

```console
numpy
torch
```

and `torch_gpy_test.py` is any script that performs a test task using PyTorch.

### E1 - Step 1. Writing the Dockerfile

In our Dockerfile, we want to start by using an officially supported image that already contains as much of the software required to run the script as possible.

In our case, we want a ready-made python 3 image to start with, which we can find in [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/search?q=python). The latest stable version at the time of writing is [3.13.3](https://hub.docker.com/layers/library/python/3.13.3/images/sha256-981c77781aa563fc22ee5936fdd37e16679e3b28d32351430a6aede491f6e8b1), so we will use this and include the digest in our Dockerfile.

Next, we need to set up the TRE directories, copy our files into the container, install the necessary packages and finally execute the script. This process can be accomplished with the following Dockerfile:

``` Dockerfile
FROM python:3.13.3@sha256:a4b2b11a9faf847c52ad07f5e0d4f34da59bad9d8589b8f2c476165d94c6b377

# Create TRE directories
RUN mkdir /safe_data /safe_outputs /scratch

WORKDIR /usr/app
COPY requirements.txt ./

# Use hadolint ignore=DL3013 when linting this Dockerfile.
RUN pip install --no-cache-dir --upgrade pip  && \
    pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt

COPY torch_gpu_test.py .

CMD ["python", "./torch_gpu_test.py"]
```

### E1 - Step 2. Build and push to GHCR

As mentioned in our guidelines, it is good practice to check the Dockerfile with a linting tool to detect common mistakes before building our container:

```sh
# Ignore DL3013 to allow --upgrade
docker run --pull always --rm -i docker.io/hadolint/hadolint:latest hadolint --ignore DL3013 - < Dockerfile
```

We can then define our GHCR variables:

```sh
export GHCR_NAMESPACE=mynamespace
export GHCR_TOKEN=mytoken
```

Note: `GHCR_TOKEN` needs to be a GitHub access token with 'repo' and 'write:packages' scope.

We can now build our container:

```sh
docker build . --tag ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/pytorch-test:v1.1 --tag ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/pytorch-test:latest --platform linux/amd64
```

and run it locally:

```sh
docker run --rm ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/pytorch-test:v1.1
```

If the container runs without errors, we can push our image to GHCR using our namespace and token:

```sh
echo "${GHCR_TOKEN}" | docker login ghcr.io -u $GHCR_NAMESPACE --password-stdin
docker push "ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/pytorch-test:v1.1"
docker push "ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/pytorch-test:latest"
docker logout
```

### E1 - Step 3. Test in CES test environment

Log into the 'ces-dev02' VM of the project EIDF147, which is the designated test environment for the CES.

Then, pull and run the container using the commands:

```sh
ces-pull podman $GHCR_NAMESPACE $GHCR_TOKEN ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/pytorch-test:v1.1
ces-run podman --gpu ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/pytorch-test:v1.1
```

Note: The namespace and token arguments to `ces-pull` are mandatory.

Note: When pulling containers into the test environment, instead of using the GitHub access token you used to push the container, it is **recommended** that you use a GitHub access token with 'read:packages' scope only. Restricting where you use your read-write token can keep your GHCR secure.

### E1 - Step 4. Pull and run in the TRE

The container can be pulled and run inside the TRE using the same commands as the [previous step](#e1-step-3-test-in-ces-test-environment).

Note: When pulling containers into the TRE, instead of using the GitHub access token you used to push the container, it is **recommended** you use a GitHub access token with 'read:packages' scope only. Restricting where you use your read-write token can keep your GHCR secure.

## Example 2 - Python ML

This example demonstrates how to build a container which requires a ML model that would normally be downloaded from the internet when first run. Such models are typically cached in a hidden directory so it can be difficult to understand how to manually download the model, where to put it, and how to load it.

The approach we take is to run a sample piece of code during the container build phase, which downloads the model to the hidden cache directory. This then becomes part of the container.

The expected directory structure is:

```console
  ├── Dockerfile
  ├── cache-easyocr.py
  ├── doc1.png
  ├── test_easyocr.py
```

where `cache-easyocr` contains:

```py
#!/usr/bin/env python3

import easyocr
reader = easyocr.Reader(['en'])
```

`test_easyocr.py`:

```py
#!/usr/bin/env python3

import easyocr
import json
import sys
import shutil

src="/src/"
dst="/safe_outputs/"
reader = easyocr.Reader(['en'])

for filename in sys.argv[1:]:
    print("Processing file: ", filename)
    text_list = reader.readtext(filename)

    entities = []
    for (bbox_list, text, confidence) in text_list:
        print('Found text "%s" with confidence %f at %s' % (text, confidence, bbox_list))
        entities.append({'text': text,
            'confidence': confidence,
            })
    out_file = filename + '.json'
    with open(out_file, 'w') as fd:
        json.dump(entities, fd)
        print(entities)
    shutil.copyfile(out_file, dst + out_file.split("/")[2])
```

and `doc1.png` is an image that contains text.

### E2 - Step 1. Writing the Dockerfile

Similarly to the PyTorch example, we will start our Dockerfile using the `python:3` image:

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.13.3@sha256:a4b2b11a9faf847c52ad07f5e0d4f34da59bad9d8589b8f2c476165d94c6b377
```

We then install easyocr and download the HuggingFace ML models:

```dockerfile
RUN pip install easyocr
COPY cache_easyocr.py .
RUN python ./cache_easyocr.py
```

As there is no internet in the TRE, we need to make sure that HuggingFace does not attempt hub access:

```dockerfile
ENV HF_HUB_OFFLINE=1
```

We can then create the TRE directories, copy the files inside the container and execute the script:

```dockerfile
RUN mkdir /safe_data /safe_outputs /scratch /src
COPY test_easyocr.py doc1.png /src/
ENTRYPOINT [ "python3", "/src/test_easyocr.py", "/src/doc1.png"]
```

The final Dockerfile is:

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.13.3@sha256:a4b2b11a9faf847c52ad07f5e0d4f34da59bad9d8589b8f2c476165d94c6b377

# Install easyocr globally
RUN pip install easyocr

# Download ML models during the build phase
COPY cache_easyocr.py .
RUN python ./cache_easyocr.py

# Set environment variable to prevent HuggingFace hub access
ENV HF_HUB_OFFLINE=1

# Create TRE directories
RUN mkdir /safe_data /safe_outputs /scratch /src
# Copy files inside the container
COPY test_easyocr.py doc1.png /src/
# Run the script with the desired parameters
ENTRYPOINT [ "python3", "/src/test_easyocr.py", "/src/doc1.png"]
```

### E2 - Step 2. Build and push to GHCR

As mentioned in our guidelines, before building our container we first want to check the Dockerfile with a linting tool to detect common mistakes:

```sh
# Ignore DL3013, DL3042 and DL3045
docker run --pull always --rm -i docker.io/hadolint/hadolint:latest hadolint --ignore DL3013 --ignore DL3042 --ignore DL3045 - < Dockerfile
```

Note that we can deliberately ignore hadolint flags if the selected features are required by the container to run successfully.

We then define our GHCR variables:

```sh
export GHCR_NAMESPACE=mynamespace
export GHCR_TOKEN=mytoken
```

Note: `GHCR_TOKEN` needs to be a GitHub access token with 'repo' and 'write:packages' scope.

We can now build our container:

```sh
docker build . --tag ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/python-ml-test:v1.1 --tag ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/python-ml-test:latest --platform linux/amd64
```

and run it locally:

```sh
docker run --rm --network=none test_easyocr ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/python-ml-test:v1.1
```

If successful, we should see an output of this type:

```console
Processing file:  /src/doc1.png
Found text "Apple is looking at buying U.K." with confidence 0.771268 at [[np.int32(1), np.int32(4)], [np.int32(221), np.int32(4)], [np.int32(221), np.int32(25)], [np.int32(1), np.int32(25)]]
Found text "startup" with confidence 0.994821 at [[np.int32(225), np.int32(9)], [np.int32(279), np.int32(9)], [np.int32(279), np.int32(23)], [np.int32(225), np.int32(23)]]
Found text "for" with confidence 0.999294 at [[np.int32(283), np.int32(7)], [np.int32(307), np.int32(7)], [np.int32(307), np.int32(21)], [np.int32(283), np.int32(21)]]
Found text "billion" with confidence 0.999928 at [[np.int32(331), np.int32(7)], [382, np.int32(7)], [382, np.int32(21)], [np.int32(331), np.int32(21)]]
[{'text': 'Apple is looking at buying U.K.', 'confidence': np.float64(0.7712680738082065)}, {'text': 'startup', 'confidence': np.float64(0.9948211556483356)}, {'text': 'for', 'confidence': np.float64(0.9992943653537125)}, {'text': 'billion', 'confidence': np.float64(0.9999277279271659)}]
```

If the container runs without errors, we can push our image to GHCR using our namespace and token:

```sh
echo "${GHCR_TOKEN}" | docker login ghcr.io -u $GHCR_NAMESPACE --password-stdin
docker push "ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/python-ml-test:v1.1"
docker push "ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/python-ml-test:latest"
docker logout
```

### E2 - Step 3. Test in CES test environment

As with the previous example, we now want to test our container in the designated test environment for the CES. Log into the 'ces-dev02' VM of the project EIDF147, then pull and run the container using the commands:

```sh
ces-pull podman $GHCR_NAMESPACE $GHCR_TOKEN ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/python-ml-test:v1.1
ces-run podman --gpu ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/python-ml-test:v1.1
```

Note: The namespace and token arguments to `ces-pull` are mandatory.

Note: When pulling containers into the test environment, instead of using the GitHub access token you used to push the container, it is **recommended** you use a GitHub access token with 'read:packages' scope only. Restricting where you use your read-write token can keep your GHCR secure.

### E2 - Step 4. Pull and run in the TRE

We can import and run the container in the TRE using the commands from the [earlier step](#e2-step-3-test-in-ces-test-environment).

Note: When pulling containers into the TRE, instead of using the GitHub access token you used to push the container, it is **recommended** you use a GitHub access token with 'read:packages' scope only. Restricting where you use your read-write token can keep your GHCR secure.

## Example 3 - Interactive RStudio Rocker container

This section guides users through the process of creating a Rocker RStudio container that can be imported into the TRE and used for data analysis. In the example, a script is copied into the container, and the necessary packages are installed to ensure it runs correctly. Finally, RStudio is accessed from the host, allowing users to interact with the application as if it were running natively.

We will assume that this is the directory structure of our files:

```console
  .
  ├── src
  │   ├── install_packages.R
  │   ├── plot_example.R
  ├── Dockerfile
```

Where `install_packages.R` contains the following:

```R
install.packages("ggplot2")
```

and `plot_example.R` is a simple script that generates a graph:

```R
# library
library(ggplot2)

# basic graph
p <- ggplot(mtcars, aes(x = wt, y = mpg)) +
  geom_point()

# a data frame with all the annotation info
annotation <- data.frame(
   x = c(2,4.5),
   y = c(20,25),
   label = c("label 1", "label 2")
)

# Add text
p + geom_text(data=annotation, aes( x=x, y=y, label=label),                 ,
           color="orange",
           size=7 , angle=45, fontface="bold" )

ggsave("test_figure.png")
```

### E3 - Step 1. Writing the Dockerfile

We start the process by selecting the parent image. Searching for Rocker in [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/search?q=rocker), we are presented with a number of options. Only some of these originate from official sources. We want to select the most appropriate image published from a reputable source, in our case the [Rocker Project](https://rocker-project.org/).

For this example, we choose the latest version of Rocker RStudio, [rocker/rstudio](https://hub.docker.com/r/rocker/rstudio) from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/).

Clicking on "tags", we can then select "latest" and see the full signature of the image. We can then include the pinned image in our Dockerfile:

```dockerfile
FROM docker.io/rocker/rstudio:latest@sha256:ee7c4efa46f0b5d46e051393ef05f262aceb959463b15fc3648955965290d231
```

The next step is to include the TRE directories:

```dockerfile
RUN mkdir /safe_data /safe_outputs /scratch
```

We then want to copy our script inside the container. As we do not mean to preserve the script, only its output, we will copy it in a new `/src` directory. Note that we cannot save the files to `/scratch` as they would otherwise be overwritten during the mounting process to the TRE directories. To avoid repeating the `RUN` command, we will simply add our new directory to it:

```dockerfile
RUN mkdir /safe_data /safe_outputs /scratch /src
```

and then copy the files:

```dockerfile
COPY ./src/* /src
```

We then switch into our code directory:

```dockerfile
WORKDIR /src
```

And finally install the required packages:

```dockerfile
RUN r install_packages.R
```

This gives us the following Dockerfile:

```dockerfile
FROM docker.io/rocker/rstudio:latest@sha256:ee7c4efa46f0b5d46e051393ef05f262aceb959463b15fc3648955965290d231

RUN mkdir /safe_data /safe_outputs /scratch /src

COPY ./src/* /src

WORKDIR /src

RUN r install_packages.R
```

### E3 - Step 2. Build and push to GHCR

Before building our container, we want to check the Dockerfile with a linting tool to detect common mistakes:

```sh
# Ignore DL3008 (Pin versions in apt get install)
docker run --pull always --rm -i docker.io/hadolint/hadolint:latest hadolint --ignore DL3008 - < Dockerfile
```

We can then define our GHCR variables:

```sh
export GHCR_NAMESPACE=mynamespace
export GHCR_TOKEN=mytoken
```

Note: `GHCR_TOKEN` needs to be a GitHub access token with 'repo' and 'write:packages' scope.

We can now build our container:

```sh
docker build . --tag ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:v1.1 --tag ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:latest --platform linux/amd64
```

and run it locally:

```sh
docker run --rm -e "PASSWORD=test" -p 8787:8787 ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:v1.1
```

We can then access RStudio by navigating to 'localhost:8787' in a browser. At the login page, type 'root' and 'test' for username and password respectively. Note that you will only be 'root' within the context of the container and not outside of it. The same applies in the test environment and TRE.

Once we made sure the container runs, we can push our image to GHCR using our namespace and token:

```sh
echo "${GHCR_TOKEN}" | docker login ghcr.io -u $GHCR_NAMESPACE --password-stdin
docker push "ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:v1.1"
docker push "ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:latest"
docker logout
```

### E3 - Step 3. Test in CES test environment

Log into the 'ces-dev02' VM of the project EIDF147, which is the designated test environment for the CES.

Rocker is one of those containers that requires to be started by the 'root' user. As such, it should be run inside the TRE - and our test environment - using podman. To pull the container using podman as our container engine, we use the command:

```sh
ces-pull podman $GHCR_NAMESPACE $GHCR_TOKEN ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:v1.1
```

Note: The namespace and token arguments to `ces-pull` are mandatory.

Note: When pulling containers into the test environment, instead of using the GitHub access token you used to push the container, it is **recommended** you use a GitHub access token with 'read:packages' scope only. Restricting where you use your read-write token can keep your GHCR secure.

The Rocker container was designed to be run using docker. In order for it to run successfully with podman, the container directories `/var/lib/rstudio-server` and `/run` need to be mounted to a tmpfs. As such, the following options are required:

```sh
'--mount type=tmpfs,destination=/var/lib/rstudio-server'
'--mount type=tmpfs,destination=/run'
```

Our full `opt-file.txt` then looks like this:

```text
-p 8787:8787
-it
--mount type=tmpfs,destination=/var/lib/rstudio-server
--mount type=tmpfs,destination=/run
```

If we want to set our password, we can add it to the `env-file.txt` as follows:

```text
PASSWORD=test
```

We can then run our container:

```sh
ces-run podman --opt-file opt-file.txt --env-file env-file.txt ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:v1.1
```

To streamline the process, we can place all the necessary commands into an executable script `run.sh` as follows:

```sh
opt_file="./opt-file.txt"

if [ -f "$opt_file" ] ; then
        rm "$opt_file"
fi
echo -e '-p 8787:8787' >> ${opt_file}
echo -e '-it' >> ${opt_file}
echo -e '--mount type=tmpfs,destination=/var/lib/rstudio-server' >> ${opt_file}
echo -e '--mount type=tmpfs,destination=/run' >> ${opt_file}

env_file="./env-file.txt"

if [ -f "$env_file" ] ; then
        rm "$env_file"
fi
echo -e "PASSWORD=test" >> ${env_file}

ces-run podman --opt-file $opt_file --env-file $env_file ghcr.io/$GHCR_NAMESPACE/rocker-test:v1.1
```

After executing the `run.sh` script, we can open a browser tab and access RStudio at `localhost:8787`. As done previously during the local test, we can log in using the credentials `root` and `test` for username and password respectively. From within RStudio, we can then run our script, which can be found in `/src`, and then copy our output to `/safe_output` so that it can be preserved after we exit the container.

The container is running successfully if:

- The log-in is successful.
- The rstudio user has full access to TRE directories `/safe_data`, `/safe_outputs` and `/scratch`.
- The files saved in `/safe_outputs` and `/safe_data` (when writing permission is granted by IG) have correct permission on the host, that is they belong to the logged-in user.

### E3 - Step 4. Pull and run in the TRE

The container can then be imported inside the TRE using the same commands as [Step 3](#e3-step-3-test-in-ces-test-environment).

Note: When pulling containers into the TRE, instead of using the GitHub access token you used to push the container, it is **recommended** you use a GitHub access token with 'read:packages' scope only. Restricting where you use your read-write token can keep your GHCR secure.
