docs/safe-haven-services/open-ondemand/about.md, before:

# About the TRE Open OnDemand service

The TRE Open OnDemand service is a web service that runs within a safe haven. The service provides a suite of apps that allows you to run compute and data-related tasks and packages on compute resources available to your safe haven.

![Open OnDemand home page](../../images/open-ondemand/home-page.png){: class="border-img center"} *Open OnDemand home page*

To quickly get started with the TRE Open OnDemand Service (hereon referred to as Open OnDemand for brevity):

* [Access Open OnDemand](access.md).
* Follow [Getting started](getting-started.md) to walk through the key points of the service.

!!! Note

    The TRE Open OnDemand service is implemented using [Open OnDemand](https://openondemand.org/).

## Open OnDemand pages

* [Access Open OnDemand](access.md)
* [Getting started](getting-started.md)
* [Open OnDemand home page](home-page.md)
* [Run jobs](jobs.md)
* [Run containers](containers.md)
* [View and run apps](apps.md)
* [Browse and manage files](files.md)
* [Log into back-ends](ssh.md)
* Apps:
    * [Active Jobs](apps/active-jobs.md)
    * [Run Batch Container](apps/batch-container-app.md)
    * [Run JupyterLab](apps/jupyter-os-app.md)
    * [Run JupyterLab Container](apps/jupyter-app.md)
    * [Run RStudio Server Container](apps/rstudio-app.md)
    * [Job Composer](apps/job-composer.md)
* [Tips](tips.md)

Commit message:

Renamed 'TRE Open OnDemand service' to 'Safe Haven Services Application Services'

docs/safe-haven-services/open-ondemand/about.md, after:

# About Safe Haven Services Application Services

Safe Haven Services Application Services run within a safe haven and provide a suite of apps that allows you to run compute and data-related tasks and packages on compute resources available to your safe haven.

![Safe Haven Services Application Services home page](../../images/open-ondemand/home-page.png){: class="border-img center"} *Safe Haven Services Application Services home page*

Application Services are implemented using [Open OnDemand](https://openondemand.org/) and, for brevity, will be referred to as 'Open OnDemand' throughout the documentation.

To quickly get started with the service:

* [Access Open OnDemand](access.md).
* Follow [Getting started](getting-started.md) to walk through the key points of using Open OnDemand.

Then, explore the other pages about the service:

* [Access Open OnDemand](access.md)
* [Getting started](getting-started.md)
* [Open OnDemand home page](home-page.md)
* [Run jobs](jobs.md)
* [Run containers](containers.md)
* [View and run apps](apps.md)
* [Browse and manage files](files.md)
* [Log into back-ends](ssh.md)
* Apps:
    * [Active Jobs](apps/active-jobs.md)
    * [Run Batch Container](apps/batch-container-app.md)
    * [Run JupyterLab](apps/jupyter-os-app.md)
    * [Run JupyterLab Container](apps/jupyter-app.md)
    * [Run RStudio Server Container](apps/rstudio-app.md)
    * [Job Composer](apps/job-composer.md)
* [Tips](tips.md)
