docs/safe-haven-services/open-ondemand/apps.md, before:

# View and run apps

---

## Introduction

The following apps are available as part of Open OnDemand's app suite:

| App | Type | Description |
| --- | ---- | ----------- |
| [Active Jobs](apps/active-jobs.md) | System Installed App | Browse and manage jobs created via both apps and the Job Composer app |
| [Run Batch Container](apps/batch-container-app.md) | Tenant and TRE Service | Run a batch container on a back-end |
| [Run JupyterLab](apps/jupyter-os-app.md) | Tenant Service | Run JupyterLab on a back-end which has JupyterLab installed |
| [Run JupyterLab Container](apps/jupyter-app.md) | Tenant Service | Run a JupyterLab container on a back-end |
| [Run RStudio Server Container](apps/rstudio-app.md) | Tenant Service | Run an RStudio Server container on a back-end |
| [Job Composer](apps/job-composer.md) | System Installed App | Write and submit a Slurm batch job to a back-end |

The app types are:

* 'System Installed App': General purpose apps provided with Open OnDemand.
* 'Tenant Service': Apps to run jobs on back-ends within your safe haven.
* 'Tenant and TRE Service': Apps to run jobs on back-ends within both your safe haven and on TRE-level compute resources.

Open OnDemand supports a number of ways by which you can see the apps available to you and select an app to run.

In each case, selecting an app will open an app-specific page, from which you can run the app, for which Open OnDemand will create and run a job.

---

## Open OnDemand home page

The Open OnDemand home page has a **selection** of the apps available to you.

Click on an app button to access that app.

---

## **Apps** menu

The Apps menu provides access to **all** of the apps available to you.

Select an app-specific menu option to access that app. The app-specific menu options correspond to apps available on the Open OnDemand home page.

To see all of the apps available to you, select the **All Apps** option to go to the All Apps page.

---

## All Apps page

Select the **Apps** menu, **All Apps** option to go to the All Apps page.

The All Apps page shows **all** of the apps available to you.

Click an app-specific link to access that app.

---

## My Interactive Sessions page apps list

Click **My Interactive Sessions** (overlaid squares icon) on the menu bar to opens the My Interactive Sessions page.

![My Interactive Sessions menu button, an overlaid squares icon](../../images/open-ondemand/my-interactive-sessions-button.png){: class="border-img center"} ***My Interactive Sessions** menu button*

The My Interactive Sessions page has a **selection** of the interactive apps available to you on the left-hand-side.

Click an app-specific button to access that app.

Commit message:

Update OOD docs (#306)
Updated docs under 'docs/safe-haven-services/open-ondemand':

* Replaced use of term 'TRE' with 'SHS'/'Safe Haven Services'; recast OOD as 'SHS Application Services'.
* Reflected changes to 'epcc-ces-hello-tre' container inc. renaming to 'epcc-ces-hello', 'Hello TRE!' message => 'Hello', 'HELLO_TRE' environment variable => 'GREETING', 'hello-container.txt' file => 'hello.txt'.
* Added 'Jobs menu' section to 'apps.md'

Updated images in docs/images/open-ondemand/ to reflect current look-and-feel.

docs/safe-haven-services/open-ondemand/apps.md, after:

# View and run apps

---

## Introduction

The following apps are available:

| App | Type | Description |
| --- | ---- | ----------- |
| [Active Jobs](apps/active-jobs.md) | System Installed App | Browse and manage jobs created via both apps and the Job Composer app |
| [Run Batch Container](apps/batch-container-app.md) | SHS App | Run a batch container on a back-end |
| [Run JupyterLab](apps/jupyter-os-app.md) | SHS App | Run JupyterLab on a back-end which has JupyterLab installed |
| [Run JupyterLab Container](apps/jupyter-app.md) | SHS App | Run a JupyterLab container on a back-end |
| [Run RStudio Server Container](apps/rstudio-app.md) | SHS App | Run an RStudio Server container on a back-end |
| [Job Composer](apps/job-composer.md) | System Installed App | Write and submit a Slurm batch job to a back-end |

The app types are:

* 'System Installed App': General purpose app provided with Open OnDemand.
* 'SHS App': Safe Haven Services Application Services app to run jobs on back-ends specific your safe haven or on shared resources to which your safe haven has access.

Open OnDemand supports a number of ways by which you can see the apps available to you and select an app to run.

In each case, selecting an app will open an app-specific page, from which you can run the app, for which Open OnDemand will create and run a job.

---

## Open OnDemand home page

The Open OnDemand home page has a **selection** of the apps available to you.

Click on an app button to access that app.

---

## **Apps** menu

The Apps menu provides access to **all** of the apps available to you.

Select an app-specific menu option to access that app. The app-specific menu options correspond to apps available on the Open OnDemand home page.

To see all of the apps available to you, select the **All Apps** option to go to the All Apps page.

---

## All Apps page

Select the **Apps** menu, **All Apps** option to go to the All Apps page.

The All Apps page shows **all** of the apps available to you.

Click an app-specific link to access that app.

---

## **Jobs** menu

The Jobs menu provides access to a **subset** of the apps available to you, those that relate to running jobs.

Some apps are grouped by sub-categories. The Safe Haven Services apps that run containers are part of a 'Containers' sub-category and are shown grouped by that name in the menu.

Select an app-specific menu option to access that app.

---

## My Interactive Sessions page apps list

Click **My Interactive Sessions** (overlaid squares icon) on the menu bar to opens the My Interactive Sessions page.

![My Interactive Sessions menu button, an overlaid squares icon](../../images/open-ondemand/my-interactive-sessions-button.png){: class="border-img center"} ***My Interactive Sessions** menu button*

The My Interactive Sessions page has a **selection** of the interactive apps available to you on the left-hand-side.

Click an app-specific button to access that app.
