docs/safe-haven-services/open-ondemand/home-page.md, before:

# Open OnDemand home page

---

## Introduction

Open OnDemand's home page provides menus and icons to allow you to access Open OnDemand's features.

![Open OnDemand home page](../../images/open-ondemand/home-page.png){: class="border-img center"} *Open OnDemand home page*

Open OnDemand's features are described on the following pages:

* [Run jobs](jobs.md)
* [Run containers](containers.md)
* [View and access apps](apps.md)
* [Browse and manage files](files.md)
* [Log into back-ends](ssh.md)

General purpose features are described below.

---

## Restart your Open OnDemand session

Select the **Help (?)** menu, **Restart Web Server** option to restart your Open OnDemand session.

![Help menu button](../../images/open-ondemand/help-menu.png){: class="border-img center"} ***Help (?)** menu button*

!!! Info

    Despite its name, this option does not restart the Open OnDemand web server! It restarts your session only. It does not affect other users!

!!! Tip

    If the Open OnDemand service or apps have been updated during your session, then **Restart Web Server** allows you to pick up such changes without having to log out and log back into Open OnDemand,

---

## Display your log in name

Click the **Avatar** (head and shoulders icon) on the menu bar to display your log in name e.g., 'Logged in as some-user'.

![Avatar menu button, a head and shoulders icon](../../images/open-ondemand/avatar-button.png){: class="border-img center"} ***Avatar** menu button*

---

## Log out

Click **Log Out** (right arrow icon) on the menu bar to log out of Open OnDemand.

![Log Out menu button, a right arrow icon](../../images/open-ondemand/logout-button.png){: class="border-img center"} ***Log Out** menu button*

Commit message:

Rework Open OnDemand text to deemphasise CES (#278)
Reworked Open OnDemand text in `docs/safe-haven-services/open-ondemand/**` to deemphasise CES, and containers, as Open OnDemand can run non-CES/container-based apps.

docs/safe-haven-services/open-ondemand/home-page.md, after:

# Open OnDemand home page

---

## Introduction

The home page provides menus and buttons to allow you to access Open OnDemand's functionality, its app suite.

![Open OnDemand home page](../../images/open-ondemand/home-page.png){: class="border-img center"} *Open OnDemand home page*

Open OnDemand's key concepts and its app suite are described on the following pages:

* [Run jobs](jobs.md)
* [Run containers](containers.md)
* [View and access apps](apps.md)
* [Browse and manage files](files.md)
* [Log into back-ends](ssh.md)

---

## Restart your session

Select the **Help (?)** menu, **Restart Web Server** option to restart your session.

![Help menu button](../../images/open-ondemand/help-menu.png){: class="border-img center"} ***Help (?)** menu button*

!!! Info

    Despite its name, this option does not restart the web server upon which Open OnDemand runs! It restarts your session only. It does not affect other users!

!!! Tip

    If Open OnDemand has been updated during your session, then **Restart Web Server** allows you to pick up such changes without having to log out and log back in again.

---

## Display your log in name

Click the **Avatar** (head and shoulders icon) on the menu bar to display your log in name e.g., 'Logged in as some-user'.

![Avatar menu button, a head and shoulders icon](../../images/open-ondemand/avatar-button.png){: class="border-img center"} ***Avatar** menu button*

---

## Log out

Click **Log Out** (right arrow icon) on the menu bar to log out.

![Log Out menu button, a right arrow icon](../../images/open-ondemand/logout-button.png){: class="border-img center"} ***Log Out** menu button*
