docs/services/securedataroom/docs.md, before:

# Service Documentation

## Project Management Guide

### User Roles and their Permissions

#### Roles summary

!!! info
    All names are separate from those in SAFE and are for the purpose of the EIDF Secure Virtual Desktop service only

**Data Users** - _Typical users - have access to read only on some data directory(s)_

**Data managers** - _Have read and write access to some data directory(s)_

**VM-admin** - _Access to the data manager group and sudo access_

#### Detailed roles, groups and their file permissions

| Role         | Code | TRE Equivalent User  | Group Access                                       | SUDO | Router access |
| ------------ | ---- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------------- |
| Data User    | DU   | SHS Ops Team         | `<project-name>`                                   | No   | No            |
| Data Manager | DM   | Research Coordinator | `<project-name>`, `<project-name>-manager`         | No   | No            |
| VM Admin     | VA   | Researcher           | `<project-name>`, `<project-name>-manager`, `sudo` | Yes  | Yes           |

There are a few different roles associated with Secure Virtual Desktop projects that determine what actions a user can perform in the EIDF Portal.

| Group                           | Files                                   | Permission | Note                                                                   |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `<project-name>-admin`,`<sudo>` | `/etc/squid/allowlist_buckets.txt`      | Owner W+R  | (implicit via machine access)                                          |
|                                 | `/etc/squid/allowlist_domains.txt`      | Owner W+R  | (implicit via machine access)                                          |
|                                 | `/etc/squid/squid.conf`                 | Owner W+R  | (implicit via machine access)                                          |
|                                 | Permissions of `<project-name>-manager` | Owner W+R  |                                                                        |
| `<project-name>-manager`        | `/mnt/<EIDF-MFT>`                       | W+R        | Serv-U machine for data transfer by data manager in and out of machine |
| `<project-name>` (data user)    | `/mnt/<EIDF-MFT>`                       | R          |                                                                        |
|                                 |                                         |            |                                                                        |

### Updating the allowed access for Secure Virtual Desktop VMs

For changing the allowed list of domains that can be accessed by this machine, users with privileges to access the Squid Router `<projectID>-router`machine should edit the squid access control list in `<projectID>-router $ /etc/squid/allowlist_domains.txt` adding the domain name following [access control list rules defined by Squid](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/SquidFaq/SquidAcl) making special note of the section [squid doesnt match my subdomains](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/SquidFaq/SquidAcl#squid-doesnt-match-my-subdomains). The rules are then updated with  the `sudo squid -k reconfigure` command.

By default the allowed list of domains allows Secure Virtual Machines to:
    - Access common package repositories for operating system updates and software installation (R06, R09)
    - Access EIDF services including the MFT server for data transfer (R04)
    - Access popular container registries for downloading (but not uploading) container images (R10)
        - Docker Hub
        - GitHub Container Registry
        - EIDF Container Registry
    - Access common software pacakages: (R11)
        - CRAN
        - PyPI
        - Bioconductor
    - Specific EIDF S3 buckets for data transfer (R08)

### Required Member Permissions

VMs and user accounts can only be managed by project members with **Cloud Admin** permissions. This includes the principal investigator (PI) of the project and all project managers (PM). Through SAFE the PI can designate project managers and the PI and PMs can grant a project member the **Cloud Admin** role:

1. Click "Manage Project in SAFE" at the bottom of the project page (opens a new tab)
1. On the project management page in SAFE, scroll down to "Manage Members"
1. Click _Add project manager_ or _Set member permissions_

For details please refer to the SAFE documentation: [How can I designate a user as a project manager?](https://epcced.github.io/safe-docs/safe-for-managers/#how-can-i-designate-a-user-as-a-project-manager)

### Create a VM

To create a new Private Secure Virtual Desktop VM:

1. Select the project from the list of your projects, e.g. `eidfxxx`
1. Click on the 'New Private Machine' button
1. Complete the 'Create Machine' form as follows:

   1. Select the PPZ router to use, typically this will be the default router for your project e.g. `eidfxxx-router`
   1. Provide an appropriate name, e.g. `dev-01`. The project code will be prepended automatically to your VM name, in this case your VM would be named `eidfxxx-dev-01`.
   1. Select a suitable operating system
   1. Select a machine specification that is suitable
   1. Choose the required disk size (in GB) or leave blank for the default
   1. Tick the checkbox "Configure RDP access" if you would like to install RDP
      and configure VDI connections via RDP for your VM.

1. Click on 'Create'
1. You should see the new VM listed under the 'Machines' table on the project page and the status as 'Creating'
1. Wait while the job to launch the VM completes.
   This may take up to 10 minutes, depending on the configuration you requested.
   You have to reload the page to see updates.
1. Once the job has completed successfully the status shows as 'Active' in the list of machines.

You may wish to ensure that the machine size selected (number of CPUs and RAM) does not
exceed your remaining quota before you press Create, otherwise the request will fail.

In the list of 'Machines' in the project page in the portal,
click on the name of new VM to see the configuration and properties,
including the machine specification, its `10.24.*.*` IP address and any configured VDI connections.

### Quota and Usage

Quotas and Usage are the same as those for the [standard EIDF VM service](../virtualmachines/docs.md#quota-and-usage).

Each project has a quota for the number of instances, total number of vCPUs, total RAM and storage.
You will not be able to create a VM if it exceeds the quota.

You can view and refresh the project usage compared to the quota in a table near the bottom of the project page.
This table will be updated automatically when VMs are created or removed, and
you can refresh it manually by pressing the "Refresh" button at the top of the table.

Please contact the helpdesk if your quota requirements have changed.

### Add a user account

TBD
<!-- User accounts allow project members to log in to the VMs in a project.
The Project PI and project managers manage user accounts for each member of the project.
Users usually use one account (username and password) to log in to all the VMs in the same project that they can access,
however a user may have multiple accounts in a project, for example for different roles.

1. From the project page in the portal click on the 'Create account' button under the 'Project Accounts' table at the bottom
1. Complete the 'Create User Account' form as follows:

    1. Choose 'Account user name': this could be something sensible like the first and last names
    concatenated (or initials) together with the project name.
    The username is unique across all EPCC systems so the user will not be able to reuse this name
    in another project once it has been assigned.
    1. Select the project member from the 'Account owner' drop-down field
    1. Click 'Create'

The user can now set the password for their new account on the account details page. -->

## Adding Access to the VM for a User

TBD
<!-- User accounts can be granted or denied access to existing VMs.

1. Click 'Manage' next to an existing user account in the 'Project Accounts' table on the project page, or click on the account name and then 'Manage' on the account details page
1. Select the checkboxes in the column "Access" for the VMs to which this account should have access or uncheck the ones without access
1. Click the 'Update' button
1. After a few minutes, the job to give them access to the selected VMs will complete and the account status will show as "Active".

If a user is logged in already to the VDI at [https://eidf-vdi.epcc.ed.ac.uk/vdi](https://eidf-vdi.epcc.ed.ac.uk/vdi)
newly added connections may not appear in their connections list immediately.
They must log out and log in again to refresh the connection information, or wait until the login token expires and is refreshed automatically - this might take a while.

If a user only has one connection available in the VDI they will be automatically directed to the VM with the default connection. -->

### Sudo permissions

Sudo permissions are only granted to users in the VM Admin role to restrict as much as possible the data management capabilities of users in the Secure Virtual Desktop environment and remove the opportunity for data ingress/egress outwith the proper channels.

## First login

These instructions match the instructions given in the [EIDF Virtual Machine Service Documentation](../virtualmachines/docs.md#first-login).

A new user account must reset the password before they can log in for the first time.
To do this:

1. The user can log into the [Portal](https://portal.eidf.ac.uk) and select their project from the 'Projects' drop down.
1. From the project page, they can select their account from the 'Your Accounts' table
1. Finally, click the 'Set Password' button from the 'User Account Info' table.

## Updating an existing machine

### Adding RDP Access

The instructions in this section match the instructions given in the [EIDF Virtual Machine Service Documentation](../virtualmachines/docs.md#adding-rdp-access).

If you did not select RDP access when you created the VM you can add it later:

1. Open the VM details page by selecting the name on the project page
1. Click on 'Configure RDP'
1. The configuration job runs for a few minutes.

Once the RDP job is completed, all users that are allowed to access the VM
will also be permitted to use the RDP connection.

### Software catalogue

The instructions in this section match the instructions given in the [EIDF Virtual Machine Service Documentation](../virtualmachines/docs.md#software-catalogue).

You can install packages from the software catalogue at a later time,
even if you didn't select a package when first creating the machine.

1. Open the VM details page by selecting the name on the project page
1. Click on 'Software Catalogue'
1. Select the configuration you wish to install and press 'Submit'
1. The configuration job runs for a few minutes.

### Patching and updating

It is the responsibility of project PIs to keep the VMs in their projects up to date as stated in the [policy](policies.md#patching-of-user-vms).

Since updates and patches require access to the internet, users should ensure that their Secure Virtual Desktop VMs have access to the sources that the operating system gets updates from, this will usually be done out of the box but repositiory sources can change and may need to be updated in the squid proxy configuration.

#### Ubuntu

To patch and update packages on Ubuntu run the following commands (requires sudo permissions):

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
```

Your system might require a restart after installing updates.

#### Rocky

To patch and update packages on Rocky run the following command (requires sudo permissions):

```bash
sudo dnf update
```

Your system might require a restart after installing updates.

### Reboot

When logged in you can reboot a VM with this command (requires sudo permissions):

```bash
sudo reboot now
```

or use the reboot button in the EIDF Portal (requires project manager permissions).

Commit message:

Add details around editing allowlist for domains and s3 buckets

docs/services/securedataroom/docs.md, after:

# Service Documentation

## Project Management Guide

### User Roles and their Permissions

#### Roles summary

!!! info
    All names are separate from those in SAFE and are for the purpose of the EIDF Secure Virtual Desktop service only

**Data Users** - _Typical users - have access to read only on some data directory(s)_

**Data managers** - _Have read and write access to some data directory(s)_

**VM-admin** - _Access to the data manager group and sudo access_

#### Detailed roles, groups and their file permissions

| Role         | Code | TRE Equivalent User  | Group Access                                       | SUDO | Router access |
| ------------ | ---- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------------- |
| Data User    | DU   | SHS Ops Team         | `<project-name>`                                   | No   | No            |
| Data Manager | DM   | Research Coordinator | `<project-name>`, `<project-name>-manager`         | No   | No            |
| VM Admin     | VA   | Researcher           | `<project-name>`, `<project-name>-manager`, `sudo` | Yes  | Yes           |

There are a few different roles associated with Secure Virtual Desktop projects that determine what actions a user can perform in the EIDF Portal.

| Group                           | Files                                   | Permission | Note                                                                   |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `<project-name>-admin`,`<sudo>` | `/etc/squid/allowlist_buckets.txt`      | Owner W+R  | (implicit via machine access)                                          |
|                                 | `/etc/squid/allowlist_domains.txt`      | Owner W+R  | (implicit via machine access)                                          |
|                                 | `/etc/squid/squid.conf`                 | Owner W+R  | (implicit via machine access)                                          |
|                                 | Permissions of `<project-name>-manager` | Owner W+R  |                                                                        |
| `<project-name>-manager`        | `/mnt/<EIDF-MFT>`                       | W+R        | Serv-U machine for data transfer by data manager in and out of machine |
| `<project-name>` (data user)    | `/mnt/<EIDF-MFT>`                       | R          |                                                                        |
|                                 |                                         |            |                                                                        |

### Updating the allowed access for Secure Virtual Desktop VMs

By default the allowed list of domains allows Secure Virtual Machines to:
    - Access common package repositories for operating system updates and software installation (R06, R09)
    - Access EIDF services including the MFT server for data transfer (R04)
    - Access popular container registries for downloading (but not uploading) container images (R10)
        - Docker Hub
        - GitHub Container Registry
        - EIDF Container Registry
    - Access common software pacakages: (R11)
        - CRAN
        - PyPI
        - Bioconductor
    - Specific EIDF S3 buckets for data transfer (R08)

Configuring the allowed list of domains for specific projects can be done only by the VM Admin through access to the Squid Router machine.

The VM Admin with access to the Squid Router `<projectID>-router` machine can edit the squid access control list. The access control list is available under

```bash
<projectID>-router $ /etc/squid/allowlist_domains.txt
```

Within this is a detailed list of domains and their reasons for being allowed. The VM Admin can add or remove domain names following the syntax of [access control lists defined by Squid](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/SquidFaq/SquidAcl) making special note of the section [squid does not match my subdomains](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/SquidFaq/SquidAcl#squid-doesnt-match-my-subdomains).

S3 buckets access is handled in a different location due to some technical details of allowing EIDF S3 buckets access. The list of allowed S3 buckets is available under

```bash
/etc/squid/allowlist_buckets.txt
```

After editing the allowlist Squid must be reconfigured using the command:

```bash
sudo squid -k reconfigure
```

### Required Member Permissions

VMs and user accounts can only be managed by project members with **Cloud Admin** permissions. This includes the principal investigator (PI) of the project and all project managers (PM). Through SAFE the PI can designate project managers and the PI and PMs can grant a project member the **Cloud Admin** role:

1. Click "Manage Project in SAFE" at the bottom of the project page (opens a new tab)
1. On the project management page in SAFE, scroll down to "Manage Members"
1. Click _Add project manager_ or _Set member permissions_

For details please refer to the SAFE documentation: [How can I designate a user as a project manager?](https://epcced.github.io/safe-docs/safe-for-managers/#how-can-i-designate-a-user-as-a-project-manager)

### Create a VM

To create a new Private Secure Virtual Desktop VM:

1. Select the project from the list of your projects, e.g. `eidfxxx`
1. Click on the 'New Private Machine' button
1. Complete the 'Create Machine' form as follows:

   1. Select the PPZ router to use, typically this will be the default router for your project e.g. `eidfxxx-router`
   1. Provide an appropriate name, e.g. `dev-01`. The project code will be prepended automatically to your VM name, in this case your VM would be named `eidfxxx-dev-01`.
   1. Select a suitable operating system
   1. Select a machine specification that is suitable
   1. Choose the required disk size (in GB) or leave blank for the default
   1. Tick the checkbox "Configure RDP access" if you would like to install RDP
      and configure VDI connections via RDP for your VM.

1. Click on 'Create'
1. You should see the new VM listed under the 'Machines' table on the project page and the status as 'Creating'
1. Wait while the job to launch the VM completes.
   This may take up to 10 minutes, depending on the configuration you requested.
   You have to reload the page to see updates.
1. Once the job has completed successfully the status shows as 'Active' in the list of machines.

You may wish to ensure that the machine size selected (number of CPUs and RAM) does not
exceed your remaining quota before you press Create, otherwise the request will fail.

In the list of 'Machines' in the project page in the portal,
click on the name of new VM to see the configuration and properties,
including the machine specification, its `10.24.*.*` IP address and any configured VDI connections.

### Quota and Usage

Quotas and Usage are the same as those for the [standard EIDF VM service](../virtualmachines/docs.md#quota-and-usage).

Each project has a quota for the number of instances, total number of vCPUs, total RAM and storage.
You will not be able to create a VM if it exceeds the quota.

You can view and refresh the project usage compared to the quota in a table near the bottom of the project page.
This table will be updated automatically when VMs are created or removed, and
you can refresh it manually by pressing the "Refresh" button at the top of the table.

Please contact the helpdesk if your quota requirements have changed.

### Add a user account

TBD
<!-- User accounts allow project members to log in to the VMs in a project.
The Project PI and project managers manage user accounts for each member of the project.
Users usually use one account (username and password) to log in to all the VMs in the same project that they can access,
however a user may have multiple accounts in a project, for example for different roles.

1. From the project page in the portal click on the 'Create account' button under the 'Project Accounts' table at the bottom
1. Complete the 'Create User Account' form as follows:

    1. Choose 'Account user name': this could be something sensible like the first and last names
    concatenated (or initials) together with the project name.
    The username is unique across all EPCC systems so the user will not be able to reuse this name
    in another project once it has been assigned.
    1. Select the project member from the 'Account owner' drop-down field
    1. Click 'Create'

The user can now set the password for their new account on the account details page. -->

## Adding Access to the VM for a User

TBD
<!-- User accounts can be granted or denied access to existing VMs.

1. Click 'Manage' next to an existing user account in the 'Project Accounts' table on the project page, or click on the account name and then 'Manage' on the account details page
1. Select the checkboxes in the column "Access" for the VMs to which this account should have access or uncheck the ones without access
1. Click the 'Update' button
1. After a few minutes, the job to give them access to the selected VMs will complete and the account status will show as "Active".

If a user is logged in already to the VDI at [https://eidf-vdi.epcc.ed.ac.uk/vdi](https://eidf-vdi.epcc.ed.ac.uk/vdi)
newly added connections may not appear in their connections list immediately.
They must log out and log in again to refresh the connection information, or wait until the login token expires and is refreshed automatically - this might take a while.

If a user only has one connection available in the VDI they will be automatically directed to the VM with the default connection. -->

### Sudo permissions

Sudo permissions are only granted to users in the VM Admin role to restrict as much as possible the data management capabilities of users in the Secure Virtual Desktop environment and remove the opportunity for data ingress/egress outwith the proper channels.

## First login

These instructions match the instructions given in the [EIDF Virtual Machine Service Documentation](../virtualmachines/docs.md#first-login).

A new user account must reset the password before they can log in for the first time.
To do this:

1. The user can log into the [Portal](https://portal.eidf.ac.uk) and select their project from the 'Projects' drop down.
1. From the project page, they can select their account from the 'Your Accounts' table
1. Finally, click the 'Set Password' button from the 'User Account Info' table.

## Updating an existing machine

### Adding RDP Access

The instructions in this section match the instructions given in the [EIDF Virtual Machine Service Documentation](../virtualmachines/docs.md#adding-rdp-access).

If you did not select RDP access when you created the VM you can add it later:

1. Open the VM details page by selecting the name on the project page
1. Click on 'Configure RDP'
1. The configuration job runs for a few minutes.

Once the RDP job is completed, all users that are allowed to access the VM
will also be permitted to use the RDP connection.

### Software catalogue

The instructions in this section match the instructions given in the [EIDF Virtual Machine Service Documentation](../virtualmachines/docs.md#software-catalogue).

You can install packages from the software catalogue at a later time,
even if you didn't select a package when first creating the machine.

1. Open the VM details page by selecting the name on the project page
1. Click on 'Software Catalogue'
1. Select the configuration you wish to install and press 'Submit'
1. The configuration job runs for a few minutes.

### Patching and updating

It is the responsibility of project PIs to keep the VMs in their projects up to date as stated in the [policy](policies.md#patching-of-user-vms).

Since updates and patches require access to the internet, users should ensure that their Secure Virtual Desktop VMs have access to the sources that the operating system gets updates from, this will usually be done out of the box but repositiory sources can change and may need to be updated in the squid proxy configuration.

#### Ubuntu

To patch and update packages on Ubuntu run the following commands (requires sudo permissions):

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
```

Your system might require a restart after installing updates.

#### Rocky

To patch and update packages on Rocky run the following command (requires sudo permissions):

```bash
sudo dnf update
```

Your system might require a restart after installing updates.

### Reboot

When logged in you can reboot a VM with this command (requires sudo permissions):

```bash
sudo reboot now
```

or use the reboot button in the EIDF Portal (requires project manager permissions).
