docs/bespoke/eddash/jhub-git.md, before:

# EIDF JupyterHub Notebook Service Access

Using the EIDF JupyterHub, users can access a range of services including standard interactive Python notebooks as well
as RStudio Server.

## Ed-DaSH Workshops

### Accessing

In order to access the EIDF JupyterHub, authentication is through GitHub, so you must have an account on
[https://github.com](https://github.com) and that account must be a member of the appropriate organization in GitHub.
Please ask your project admin or workshop instructor for the workshop GitHub organization details. Please follow the
relevant steps listed below to prepare.

1. If you do not have a GitHub account associated with the email you registered for the workshop with, follow the steps
   described in [Step 1: Creating a GitHub Account](#step-1-creating-a-github-account)
1. If you do already have a GitHub account associated with the email address you registered for the workshop with,
   follow the steps described in
   [Step 2: Registering with the Workshop GitHub Organization](#step-2-registering-with-the-workshop-github-organization)

#### Step 1: Creating a GitHub Account

1. Visit [https://github.com/signup](https://github.com/signup) in your browser
1. Enter the email address that you used to register for the workshop
1. Complete the remaining steps of the GitHub registration process
1. Send an email to [j.hay@epcc.ed.ac.uk](mailto: j.hay@epcc.ed.ac.uk) from your GitHub registered email address,
   including your GitHub username, and ask for an invitation to the workshop GitHub organization
1. Wait for an email from GitHub inviting you to join the organization, then follow the steps in
   [Step 2: Registering with the Workshop GitHub Organization](#step-2-registering-with-the-workshop-github-organization)

#### Step 2: Registering With the Workshop GitHub Organization

1. If you already have a GitHub account associated with the email address that you registered for the workshop with, you
   should have received an email inviting you to join the relevant GitHub organization. If you have not, email
   [j.hay@epcc.ed.ac.uk](mailto: j.hay@epcc.ed.ac.uk) from your GitHub registered email address, including your GitHub
   username, and ask for an invitation to the workshop GitHub organization
1. Once you have been invited to the GitHub organization, you will receive an email with the invitation; click on the
   ![GitHub-Org-Button](/eidf-docs/images/access/github-btn.png){: class="inline-img"} button as shown
   ![GitHub-Invitation](/eidf-docs/images/access/github-invitation.png){: class="border-img center"}
   *Invitation to join the workshop GitHub organization*
1. Clicking on the button in the email will open a new web page with another form as shown below
   ![GitHub-Invitation-2](/eidf-docs/images/access/github-invitation-2.png){: class="border-img center"}
   *Form to accept the invitation to join the GitHub organization*
1. Again, click on the ![Join-GitHub-Org-Button](/eidf-docs/images/access/join-btn.png){: class="inline-img"} button to
   confirm, then the Ed-DaSH-Training GitHub organization page will open

Commit message:

JH: replace all personal mail addresses with mlist

docs/bespoke/eddash/jhub-git.md, after:

# EIDF JupyterHub Notebook Service Access

Using the EIDF JupyterHub, users can access a range of services including standard interactive Python notebooks as well
as RStudio Server.

## Ed-DaSH Workshops

### Accessing

In order to access the EIDF JupyterHub, authentication is through GitHub, so you must have an account on
[https://github.com](https://github.com) and that account must be a member of the appropriate organization in GitHub.
Please ask your project admin or workshop instructor for the workshop GitHub organization details. Please follow the
relevant steps listed below to prepare.

1. If you do not have a GitHub account associated with the email you registered for the workshop with, follow the steps
   described in [Step 1: Creating a GitHub Account](#step-1-creating-a-github-account)
1. If you do already have a GitHub account associated with the email address you registered for the workshop with,
   follow the steps described in
   [Step 2: Registering with the Workshop GitHub Organization](#step-2-registering-with-the-workshop-github-organization)

#### Step 1: Creating a GitHub Account

1. Visit [https://github.com/signup](https://github.com/signup) in your browser
1. Enter the email address that you used to register for the workshop
1. Complete the remaining steps of the GitHub registration process
1. Send an email to [ed-dash-support@mlist.is.ed.ac.uk](mailto:ed-dash-support@mlist.is.ed.ac.uk) from your GitHub
   registered email address, including your GitHub username, and ask for an invitation to the workshop GitHub organization
1. Wait for an email from GitHub inviting you to join the organization, then follow the steps in
   [Step 2: Registering with the Workshop GitHub Organization](#step-2-registering-with-the-workshop-github-organization)

#### Step 2: Registering With the Workshop GitHub Organization

1. If you already have a GitHub account associated with the email address that you registered for the workshop with, you
   should have received an email inviting you to join the relevant GitHub organization. If you have not, email
   [ed-dash-support@mlist.is.ed.ac.uk](mailto:ed-dash-support@mlist.is.ed.ac.uk) from your GitHub registered email
   address, including your GitHub username, and ask for an invitation to the workshop GitHub organization
1. Once you have been invited to the GitHub organization, you will receive an email with the invitation; click on the
   ![GitHub-Org-Button](/eidf-docs/images/access/github-btn.png){: class="inline-img"} button as shown
   ![GitHub-Invitation](/eidf-docs/images/access/github-invitation.png){: class="border-img center"}
   *Invitation to join the workshop GitHub organization*
1. Clicking on the button in the email will open a new web page with another form as shown below
   ![GitHub-Invitation-2](/eidf-docs/images/access/github-invitation-2.png){: class="border-img center"}
   *Form to accept the invitation to join the GitHub organization*
1. Again, click on the ![Join-GitHub-Org-Button](/eidf-docs/images/access/join-btn.png){: class="inline-img"} button to
   confirm, then the Ed-DaSH-Training GitHub organization page will open
