docs/access/project.md, before:

# EIDF Portal

Projects using the Virtual Desktop cloud service are accessed via the
[EIDF Portal](https://portal.eidf.ac.uk/).

The EIDF Portal uses EPCC's SAFE service management software to manage
user accounts across all EPCC services. To log in to the Portal you
will first be redirected to the [SAFE log on
page](https://safe.epcc.ed.ac.uk).  If you do not have a SAFE account
follow the instructions in the [SAFE
documentation](https://epcced.github.io/safe-docs/safe-for-users/) how
to register and receive your password.

## How to request to join a project

Log in to the [EIDF Portal](https://portal.eidf.ac.uk/) and
navigate to "Projects" and choose "Request access".
Select the project that you want to join in the "Project" dropdown list -
you can search for the project name or the project code, e.g. "eidf0123".

Now you have to wait for your PI or project manager to accept your request to register.

## How to apply for a project as a Principal Investigator

### Create a new project application

Navigate to the [EIDF Portal](https://portal.eidf.ac.uk/) and log
in via SAFE if necessary (see above).

Once you have logged in click on "Applications" in the menu and choose "New Application".

1. Fill in the Application Title - this will be the name of the project once it is approved.
1. Choose a start date and an end date for your project.
1. Click "Create" to create your project application.

Once the application has been created you see an overview of the form you are
required to fill in. You can revisit the application at any time by clicking on
"Applications" and choosing "Your applications" to display all your current and past
applications and their status, or follow the link
[https://portal.eidf.ac.uk/proposal/](https://portal.eidf.ac.uk/proposal/).

### Populate a project application

Fill in each section of the application as required:

* Previous Use of Data Analytics or HPC Resources
* EIDF Desktop Software Requirements
* EIDF Data Management Plan
* Case for Support

You can edit and save each section separately and revisit the application at a later time.

#### Datasets

You are required to fill in a "Dataset" form for each dataset that you are planning to store and process as part of your project.

We are required to ensure that projects involving "sensitive" data have the necessary permissions in place.
The answers to these questions will enable us to decide what additional documentation we may need, and whether your project may need to be set up in an independently governed Safe Haven.
There may be some projects we are simply unable to host for data protection reasons.

#### Resource Requirements

Add an estimate for each size and type of VM that is required.

### Submission

When you are happy with your application, click "Submit".
If there are missing fields that are required these are highlighted and your submission will fail.

When your submission was successful the application status is marked as "Submitted" and
now you have to wait while the EIDF approval team considers your application.
You may be contacted if there are any questions regarding your application or further
information is required,
and you will be notified of the outcome of your application.

### Approved Project

If your application was approved, refer to
[Data Science Virtual Desktops: Quickstart](../services/virtualmachines/quickstart.md)
how to view your project and to
[Data Science Virtual Desktops: Managing VMs](../services/virtualmachines/docs.md)
how to manage a project and how to create virtual machines and user accounts.

Commit message:

updating portal application docs and fixing linting errors

docs/access/project.md, after:

# EIDF Portal

Projects using the Virtual Desktop cloud service are accessed via the
[EIDF Portal](https://portal.eidf.ac.uk/).

The EIDF Portal uses EPCC's SAFE service management software to manage
user accounts across all EPCC services. To log in to the Portal you
will first be redirected to the [SAFE log on
page](https://safe.epcc.ed.ac.uk).  If you do not have a SAFE account
follow the instructions in the [SAFE
documentation](https://epcced.github.io/safe-docs/safe-for-users/) how
to register and receive your password.

## How to request to join a project

Log in to the [EIDF Portal](https://portal.eidf.ac.uk/) and
navigate to "Projects" and choose "Request access".
Select the project that you want to join in the "Project" dropdown list -
you can search for the project name or the project code, e.g. "eidf0123".

Now you have to wait for your PI or project manager to accept your request to join.

Once your request is accepted, the project manager creates an account for you
and enables access to the machines that you require in your project.
You cannot request accounts, this has to be done by your project manager.
If you cannot see any accounts in the project after joining please get in touch with
the PI or a project manager and ask them to create one for you.

## How to apply for a project as a Principal Investigator

### Create a new project application

Navigate to the [EIDF Portal](https://portal.eidf.ac.uk/) and log
in via SAFE if necessary (see above).

Once you have logged in click on "Applications" in the menu and choose "New Application".

1. Fill in the Application Title - this will be the name of the project once it is approved.
1. Choose a start date and an end date for your project.
1. Select the services for which you are applying.
1. Click "Create" to create your project application.

Once the application has been created you see an overview of the form you are
required to fill in. You can revisit the application at any time by clicking on
"Applications" and choosing "Your applications" to display all your current and past
applications and their status, or follow the link
[https://portal.eidf.ac.uk/proposal/](https://portal.eidf.ac.uk/proposal/).

### Populate a project application

Fill in each section of the application as required:

* Case for Support
* EIDF Services Required

You can edit and save each section separately and revisit the application at a later time.

#### Editors

You may invite other editors to your application.
Editors must have a valid SAFE login and they will receive an email with your invitation and a link.
After accepting, they have write access to all parts of the proposal.
However, only the owner of the application has permission to submit the application.

#### Datasets

You are required to fill in a "Dataset" form for each dataset that you are planning to store and process as part of your project.

We are required to ensure that projects involving "sensitive" data have the necessary permissions in place.
The answers to these questions will enable us to decide what additional documentation we may need, and whether your project may need to be set up in an independently governed Safe Haven.
There may be some projects we are simply unable to host for data protection reasons.

#### Virtual Desktop Requirements

Add an estimate for each size and type of VM that is required.

### Submission

When you are happy with your application, click "Submit".
If there are missing fields that are required these are highlighted and your submission will fail.

When your submission was successful the application status is marked as "Submitted" and
now you have to wait while the EIDF approval team considers your application.
You may be contacted if there are any questions regarding your application or further
information is required,
and you will be notified of the outcome of your application.

### Approved Project

If your application was approved, refer to
[Data Science Virtual Desktops: Quickstart](../services/virtualmachines/quickstart.md)
how to view your project and to
[Data Science Virtual Desktops: Managing VMs](../services/virtualmachines/docs.md)
how to manage a project and how to create virtual machines and user accounts.
