docs/safe-haven-services/open-ondemand/apps/container-app.md, before:

# Run Container

Run Container is a Container Execution Service app that allows you to run a container on a back-end.

The app is designed to run batch containers, those that perform some computational or data-related task. The app is **not** designed for containers that spawn interactive services (for example, JupyterLab).

Containers run **must** conform to the [Container requirements](../containers.md#container-requirements) of the Container Execution Service.

---

## Run a container

Complete the following information the app form:

* **Cluster**: The back-end (cluster) within your safe haven on which to run the container. Back-end short-names are used in the drop-down list and safe haven-specific back-ends include the text 'tenant' (see [Back-end (cluster) names](../jobs.md#back-end-cluster-names) for more information).

    !!! Note

        **National Safe Haven users**: If you want to use a 'desktop' back-end, then you must select the 'desktop' you have been granted access to.

* **Container/image URL in container registry**: For example, `ghcr.io/mikej888/hello-tre:1.0`. See [Container registries](../containers.md#container-registries) for supported container registries.
* **Container registry username**.
* **Container registry password/access token**: An access token with read-only access to the container registry is strongly recommended but a token with read-write access or a password can also be used.
* **Container runner**: Container execution tool with which to run container. The selected tool must be available on the selected back-end. Options are 'podman' or 'apptainer'.
* **Container name:** (Podman only) Name to be given to the container when it is run. If omitted, then the container image name is used. For example, if the container image name is `my-container:1.0` then the container name is `my-container`. Your user name and a timestamp will be added as a suffix to the name to prevent name clashes if running multiple containers from the same image. So, the container name will be `yourusername-timestamp-containername` e.g. `mel-060416105069-hello-tre`.
* **Cores (max 1152)**: Number of cores/CPUs requested for this job. Your selected back-end (cluster) must have the selected number of cores/CPUs available.
* **Memory in GiB (max 17830 GiB)**: Memory requested for this job. Your selected back-end (cluster) must have the selected memory available.
* **Use GPU?**: Request that the container use a GPU. If selected, then the selected back-end must have GPUs available.
* **Command-line options to pass to container runner**: Podman- or Apptainer-specific options to control the container runner's behaviour.
* **Environment variables to pass to container**: Environment variable passed on by the container runner and set within the container when it runs. Each line should define one environment variable and value, each in the form, `ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLE=value`. For example:

    ```text
    HELLO_TRE=Greetings
    ```

    * If a value has spaces then, if using Apptainer, enclose the value in double-quotes. If using Podman, do not enclose the value in double-quotes.

* **Arguments to pass to container**: Container-specific arguments to be passed directly to the container when it is run. For example:

    ````text
    -d 5
    -n container-app-user
    ````

Click **Launch**.

Open OnDemand will submit a job to your chosen back-end to create and run the container.

When the container has started a 'Please wait until your job has completed' message will appear.

!!! Warning

    Your job, and so your container. will run for a maximum of 6 hours.

---

## Sharing files between the back-end and the container

See [Sharing files between a back-end and a container](../containers.md#sharing-files-between-a-back-end-and-a-container)

---

## View job files

On a job's job card, click the **Session ID** link to open the [File Manager](../files.md), pointing at the job context directory for the job on the Open OnDemand VM.

!!! Info

    When using a back-end where your home directory is not common to both the Open OnDemand VM and the back-end, then, if your job creates files on the back-end, you will have to log into the back-end to view your files - see [Log into back-ends](../ssh.md).

---

## Log into back-end

While the job is running, click the **Host** link to log into to back-end on which the job is running.

If the job has completed, see [Log into back-ends](../ssh.md) for ways to log into the back-end.

---

## Take a break

Your container job will continue to run even if you do the following:

* Close the browser tab.
* Log out of Open OnDemand.
* Log out of the VM from which you accessed Open OnDemand.

---

## End your job

You can end your job by as follows:

* Cancel or delete the job via Open OnDemand. See [Browse and manage jobs](../jobs.md#browse-and-manage-jobs).

---

## Run a 'hello-tre' example container

The app form is prepopulated with a 'hello TRE' image, `ghcr.io/mikej888/hello-tre:1.0`, and its complementary read-only credentials. When run, the image's container logs a greeting and information about folders mounted into the container. The container's behaviour can be configured as follows:

* A `HELLO_TRE` environment variable will cause the container to print the variable's value as a greeting. For example, if `HELLO_TRE=Greetings` is set, then the greeting is `Greetings`. If `HELLO_TRE` is undefined, then the greeting is `Hello`.
* A `-d|--duration INTEGER` argument to the container will cause it to sleep for that number of seconds. For example, if `-d 10` is passed, then the container sleeps for 10 seconds. If `-d` is undefined, then the container does not sleep.
* A `-n|--name STRING` argument to the container will cause it to print a greeting with that name. For example, if  `-n container-app-user` is passed, then `container-app-user` is used.  If undefined, then the name `user` is used.

Run the 'hello-tre' example:

1. Select a **Cluster**, back-end.
1. For **Environment variables to pass to container**, enter:

    ```text
    HELLO_TRE=Hello there
    ```

1. For **Arguments to pass to container**, enter:

    ```text
    -d 10
    -n YOUR_FIRST_NAME
    ```

1. Leave all other values as-is.
1. Click **Launch**.
1. The job card for the job should appear.
1. View the log file, `container_app_output-RUNID.log`, for the job (where `RUNID` is a numerical identifier):
    * If you selected a back-end where your home directory is common to both the Open OnDemand VM and the back-end, then:
        1. Click the **Session ID** link in the job card to open the [File Manager](../files.md), pointing at the job context directory for the job on the Open OnDemand VM.
        1. Click on the log file, `container_app_output-RUNID.log`.
    * If you selected a back-end where your home directory is not common to both the Open OnDemand VM and the back-end, then:
        1. Select **Clusters** menu, back-end **Shell Access** option to log into the back-end.
        1. Change into the job context directory for the job on the back-end and show the log file:

        ```bash
        cd ondemand/data/sys/dashboard/batch_connect/sys/container_app/output/SESSION_ID/
        cat container_app_output-RUNID.log
        ```

1. The log file includes:

    * Information about how the container is run:

    ```text
    Fri Jun 13 12:17:44 UTC 2025 before.sh: JOB_FOLDER: $HOME/ondemand/data/sys/dashboard/batch_connect/sys/container_app/output/SESSION_ID
    ...
    Fri Jun 13 12:17:50 UTC 2025 script.sh: Running ces-run podman ...
    Running: /usr/local/bin/ces-pm-run ...
    ```

    * Information from the container itself about your user name within the container and the directories mounted into the container (see [Sharing files between a back-end and a container](../containers.md#sharing-files-between-a-back-end-and-a-container):

    ```
    Hello TRE!

    Your container is now running.

    Your user 'id' within the container is: uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root).

    Check mounted directories, ownership, permissions, file system type:
    /safe_data: nobody (65534) root(0) drwxrwx--- nfs
    /scratch: root (0) root(0) drwxr-xr-x ext2/ext3
    /safe_outputs: root (0) root(0) drwxr-xr-x ext2/ext3

    Check read/write access to mounted directories

    List /safe_data contents and write to /safe_outputs/safe_data_files.out
    Check write to /safe_outputs
    Contents of /safe_outputs/safe_outputs.txt:
    This text is in safe_outputs.txt
    Check write to /scratch
    Contents of /scratch/scratch.txt:
    This text is in scratch.txt

    Look for optional 'HELLO_TRE' environment variable
    Found optional 'HELLO_TRE' environment variable with value: Hello there

    Parse command-line arguments
    Number of arguments: 5
    Arguments (one per line):
        -d
        30
        -n
        YOUR_FIRST_NAME
    ```

    * A message created using the value of the `HELLO_TRE` environment variable and the `-n` container argument and messages indicating that the container is sleeping for the duration specified by the `-d` container argument:

    ```
    Hello there YOUR_FIRST_NAME!

    Sleeping for 30 seconds...
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    ...and awake!

    For more container examples and ideas, visit:
      https://github.com/EPCCed/tre-container-samples
    Goodbye YOUR_FIRST_NAME!
    Cleaning up...
    ```

1. As described in [Sharing files between a back-end and a container](../containers.md#sharing-files-between-a-back-end-and-a-container), an `outputs-NUMBER` directory is created and mounted into the container at `/safe_outputs/`. When the 'hello-tre' container is run it writes two files into this directory:
    * `safe_data.txt`, with information on the directories and files in the `/safe_data/PROJECT_SUBDIRECTORY` directory mounted into the container at `/safe_data/`
    * `safe_outputs.txt`, with a 'This text is in safe_outputs.txt' message.
    * View the `outputs-NUMBER` directory:
        * If you selected a back-end where your home directory is common to both the Open OnDemand VM and the back-end, then:
            1. Click **Home Directory** in the [File Manager](../files.md), to go to your home directory.
            1. Click `outputs-NUMBER` to view the directory and its files.
        * If you selected a back-end where your home directory is not common to both the Open OnDemand VM and the back-end, then change into your home directory:

        ```bash
        cd
        ls outputs-NUMBER
        cat outputs-NUMBER/safe_data.txt
        cat outputs-NUMBER/safe_outputs.txt
        ```

Another thing you can try is to use the File Manager or the command-line to create a `$HOME/safe_data/` directory and then create some files in it. If you rerun the app, this time `outputs-NUMBER/safe_data.txt` will list the files you created. For example, assume `$HOME/safe_data/` was created as follows (with three empty files):

```bash
mkdir $HOME/safe_data/
touch $HOME/safe_data/a.txt
touch $HOME/safe_data/b.txt
touch $HOME/safe_data/c.txt
ls -1 $HOME/safe_data
```

`outputs-NUMBER/safe_data.txt` would have the contents:

```text
/safe_data: root (0) root(0) drwxr-xr-x
/safe_data/a.txt: root (0) root(0) -rw-r--r--
/safe_data/c.txt: root (0) root(0) -rw-r--r--
/safe_data/b.txt: root (0) root(0) -rw-r--r--
```

Commit message:

Updated open-ondemand/jobs.md and app pages with warning that jobs and containers are killed during thr monthly TRE maintenance period

docs/safe-haven-services/open-ondemand/apps/container-app.md, after:

# Run Container

Run Container is a Container Execution Service app that allows you to run a container on a back-end.

The app is designed to run batch containers, those that perform some computational or data-related task. The app is **not** designed for containers that spawn interactive services (for example, JupyterLab).

Containers run **must** conform to the [Container requirements](../containers.md#container-requirements) of the Container Execution Service.

---

## Run a container

Complete the following information the app form:

* **Cluster**: The back-end (cluster) within your safe haven on which to run the container. Back-end short-names are used in the drop-down list and safe haven-specific back-ends include the text 'tenant' (see [Back-end (cluster) names](../jobs.md#back-end-cluster-names) for more information).

    !!! Note

        **National Safe Haven users**: If you want to use a 'desktop' back-end, then you must select the 'desktop' you have been granted access to.

* **Container/image URL in container registry**: For example, `ghcr.io/mikej888/hello-tre:1.0`. See [Container registries](../containers.md#container-registries) for supported container registries.
* **Container registry username**.
* **Container registry password/access token**: An access token with read-only access to the container registry is strongly recommended but a token with read-write access or a password can also be used.
* **Container runner**: Container execution tool with which to run container. The selected tool must be available on the selected back-end. Options are 'podman' or 'apptainer'.
* **Container name:** (Podman only) Name to be given to the container when it is run. If omitted, then the container image name is used. For example, if the container image name is `my-container:1.0` then the container name is `my-container`. Your user name and a timestamp will be added as a suffix to the name to prevent name clashes if running multiple containers from the same image. So, the container name will be `yourusername-timestamp-containername` e.g. `mel-060416105069-hello-tre`.
* **Cores (max 1152)**: Number of cores/CPUs requested for this job. Your selected back-end (cluster) must have the selected number of cores/CPUs available.
* **Memory in GiB (max 17830 GiB)**: Memory requested for this job. Your selected back-end (cluster) must have the selected memory available.
* **Use GPU?**: Request that the container use a GPU. If selected, then the selected back-end must have GPUs available.
* **Command-line options to pass to container runner**: Podman- or Apptainer-specific options to control the container runner's behaviour.
* **Environment variables to pass to container**: Environment variable passed on by the container runner and set within the container when it runs. Each line should define one environment variable and value, each in the form, `ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLE=value`. For example:

    ```text
    HELLO_TRE=Greetings
    ```

    * If a value has spaces then, if using Apptainer, enclose the value in double-quotes. If using Podman, do not enclose the value in double-quotes.

* **Arguments to pass to container**: Container-specific arguments to be passed directly to the container when it is run. For example:

    ````text
    -d 5
    -n container-app-user
    ````

Click **Launch**.

Open OnDemand will submit a job to your chosen back-end to create and run the container.

When the container has started a 'Please wait until your job has completed' message will appear.

!!! Warning

    Your job, and so your container. will run for a maximum of 6 hours.

!!! Warning

    Any running jobs, and containers, will be killed during the monthly TRE maintenance period.

---

## Sharing files between the back-end and the container

See [Sharing files between a back-end and a container](../containers.md#sharing-files-between-a-back-end-and-a-container)

---

## View job files

On a job's job card, click the **Session ID** link to open the [File Manager](../files.md), pointing at the job context directory for the job on the Open OnDemand VM.

!!! Info

    When using a back-end where your home directory is not common to both the Open OnDemand VM and the back-end, then, if your job creates files on the back-end, you will have to log into the back-end to view your files - see [Log into back-ends](../ssh.md).

---

## Log into back-end

While the job is running, click the **Host** link to log into to back-end on which the job is running.

If the job has completed, see [Log into back-ends](../ssh.md) for ways to log into the back-end.

---

## Take a break

Your container job will continue to run even if you do the following:

* Close the browser tab.
* Log out of Open OnDemand.
* Log out of the VM from which you accessed Open OnDemand.

---

## End your job

You can end your job by as follows:

* Cancel or delete the job via Open OnDemand. See [Browse and manage jobs](../jobs.md#browse-and-manage-jobs).

---

## Run a 'hello-tre' example container

The app form is prepopulated with a 'hello TRE' image, `ghcr.io/mikej888/hello-tre:1.0`, and its complementary read-only credentials. When run, the image's container logs a greeting and information about folders mounted into the container. The container's behaviour can be configured as follows:

* A `HELLO_TRE` environment variable will cause the container to print the variable's value as a greeting. For example, if `HELLO_TRE=Greetings` is set, then the greeting is `Greetings`. If `HELLO_TRE` is undefined, then the greeting is `Hello`.
* A `-d|--duration INTEGER` argument to the container will cause it to sleep for that number of seconds. For example, if `-d 10` is passed, then the container sleeps for 10 seconds. If `-d` is undefined, then the container does not sleep.
* A `-n|--name STRING` argument to the container will cause it to print a greeting with that name. For example, if  `-n container-app-user` is passed, then `container-app-user` is used.  If undefined, then the name `user` is used.

Run the 'hello-tre' example:

1. Select a **Cluster**, back-end.
1. For **Environment variables to pass to container**, enter:

    ```text
    HELLO_TRE=Hello there
    ```

1. For **Arguments to pass to container**, enter:

    ```text
    -d 10
    -n YOUR_FIRST_NAME
    ```

1. Leave all other values as-is.
1. Click **Launch**.
1. The job card for the job should appear.
1. View the log file, `container_app_output-RUNID.log`, for the job (where `RUNID` is a numerical identifier):
    * If you selected a back-end where your home directory is common to both the Open OnDemand VM and the back-end, then:
        1. Click the **Session ID** link in the job card to open the [File Manager](../files.md), pointing at the job context directory for the job on the Open OnDemand VM.
        1. Click on the log file, `container_app_output-RUNID.log`.
    * If you selected a back-end where your home directory is not common to both the Open OnDemand VM and the back-end, then:
        1. Select **Clusters** menu, back-end **Shell Access** option to log into the back-end.
        1. Change into the job context directory for the job on the back-end and show the log file:

        ```bash
        cd ondemand/data/sys/dashboard/batch_connect/sys/container_app/output/SESSION_ID/
        cat container_app_output-RUNID.log
        ```

1. The log file includes:

    * Information about how the container is run:

    ```text
    Fri Jun 13 12:17:44 UTC 2025 before.sh: JOB_FOLDER: $HOME/ondemand/data/sys/dashboard/batch_connect/sys/container_app/output/SESSION_ID
    ...
    Fri Jun 13 12:17:50 UTC 2025 script.sh: Running ces-run podman ...
    Running: /usr/local/bin/ces-pm-run ...
    ```

    * Information from the container itself about your user name within the container and the directories mounted into the container (see [Sharing files between a back-end and a container](../containers.md#sharing-files-between-a-back-end-and-a-container):

    ```
    Hello TRE!

    Your container is now running.

    Your user 'id' within the container is: uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root).

    Check mounted directories, ownership, permissions, file system type:
    /safe_data: nobody (65534) root(0) drwxrwx--- nfs
    /scratch: root (0) root(0) drwxr-xr-x ext2/ext3
    /safe_outputs: root (0) root(0) drwxr-xr-x ext2/ext3

    Check read/write access to mounted directories

    List /safe_data contents and write to /safe_outputs/safe_data_files.out
    Check write to /safe_outputs
    Contents of /safe_outputs/safe_outputs.txt:
    This text is in safe_outputs.txt
    Check write to /scratch
    Contents of /scratch/scratch.txt:
    This text is in scratch.txt

    Look for optional 'HELLO_TRE' environment variable
    Found optional 'HELLO_TRE' environment variable with value: Hello there

    Parse command-line arguments
    Number of arguments: 5
    Arguments (one per line):
        -d
        30
        -n
        YOUR_FIRST_NAME
    ```

    * A message created using the value of the `HELLO_TRE` environment variable and the `-n` container argument and messages indicating that the container is sleeping for the duration specified by the `-d` container argument:

    ```
    Hello there YOUR_FIRST_NAME!

    Sleeping for 30 seconds...
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10
    ...and awake!

    For more container examples and ideas, visit:
      https://github.com/EPCCed/tre-container-samples
    Goodbye YOUR_FIRST_NAME!
    Cleaning up...
    ```

1. As described in [Sharing files between a back-end and a container](../containers.md#sharing-files-between-a-back-end-and-a-container), an `outputs-NUMBER` directory is created and mounted into the container at `/safe_outputs/`. When the 'hello-tre' container is run it writes two files into this directory:
    * `safe_data.txt`, with information on the directories and files in the `/safe_data/PROJECT_SUBDIRECTORY` directory mounted into the container at `/safe_data/`
    * `safe_outputs.txt`, with a 'This text is in safe_outputs.txt' message.
    * View the `outputs-NUMBER` directory:
        * If you selected a back-end where your home directory is common to both the Open OnDemand VM and the back-end, then:
            1. Click **Home Directory** in the [File Manager](../files.md), to go to your home directory.
            1. Click `outputs-NUMBER` to view the directory and its files.
        * If you selected a back-end where your home directory is not common to both the Open OnDemand VM and the back-end, then change into your home directory:

        ```bash
        cd
        ls outputs-NUMBER
        cat outputs-NUMBER/safe_data.txt
        cat outputs-NUMBER/safe_outputs.txt
        ```

Another thing you can try is to use the File Manager or the command-line to create a `$HOME/safe_data/` directory and then create some files in it. If you rerun the app, this time `outputs-NUMBER/safe_data.txt` will list the files you created. For example, assume `$HOME/safe_data/` was created as follows (with three empty files):

```bash
mkdir $HOME/safe_data/
touch $HOME/safe_data/a.txt
touch $HOME/safe_data/b.txt
touch $HOME/safe_data/c.txt
ls -1 $HOME/safe_data
```

`outputs-NUMBER/safe_data.txt` would have the contents:

```text
/safe_data: root (0) root(0) drwxr-xr-x
/safe_data/a.txt: root (0) root(0) -rw-r--r--
/safe_data/c.txt: root (0) root(0) -rw-r--r--
/safe_data/b.txt: root (0) root(0) -rw-r--r--
```
