docs/index.md, before:

# EIDF User Documentation

The Edinburgh International Data Facility (EIDF) is built and operated by
[EPCC](https://www.epcc.ed.ac.uk) at [the University of Edinburgh](https://www.ed.ac.uk).
EIDF is a place to store, find and work with data of all kinds. You
can find more information on the service and the research it supports on
the [EIDF website](https://www.ed.ac.uk/edinburgh-international-data-facility/overview).

## What the documentation covers

This documentation is in development and content will be added soon.

## Contributing to the documentation

The source for this documentation is publicly available in the [EIDF
documentation Github
repository](https://github.com/EPCCed/eidf-docs) so that anyone
can contribute to improve the documentation for the service.
Contributions can be in the form of improvements or additions to the
content and/or addition of Issues providing suggestions for how it can be
improved.

Full details of how to contribute can be found in the
[`README.md`](https://github.com/EPCCed/eidf-docs/blob/main/README.md) file of
the repository.

Further additions to be added.

## Credits

This documentation draws on the
[ARCHER2 National Supercomputing Service documentation](https://docs.archer2.ac.uk).

Commit message:

Add support email address, fixes #13

docs/index.md, after:

# EIDF User Documentation

The Edinburgh International Data Facility (EIDF) is built and operated by
[EPCC](https://www.epcc.ed.ac.uk) at [the University of Edinburgh](https://www.ed.ac.uk).
EIDF is a place to store, find and work with data of all kinds. You
can find more information on the service and the research it supports on
the [EIDF website](https://www.ed.ac.uk/edinburgh-international-data-facility/overview).

For more information or for support with our services, please email `eidf@epcc.ed.ac.uk` in the first instance.

## What the documentation covers

This documentation is in development and content will be added soon.

## Contributing to the documentation

The source for this documentation is publicly available in the [EIDF
documentation Github
repository](https://github.com/EPCCed/eidf-docs) so that anyone
can contribute to improve the documentation for the service.
Contributions can be in the form of improvements or additions to the
content and/or addition of Issues providing suggestions for how it can be
improved.

Full details of how to contribute can be found in the
[`README.md`](https://github.com/EPCCed/eidf-docs/blob/main/README.md) file of
the repository.

Further additions to be added.

## Credits

This documentation draws on the
[ARCHER2 National Supercomputing Service documentation](https://docs.archer2.ac.uk).
